you may not realize it but we're
surrounded by arguably the greatest most
revolutionary invention of the last 50
years it's in TVs stereos watches cars
phones traffic lights and pretty well
every appliance in your kitchen in fact
these days if a device uses electricity
it probably uses one the tiny gizmo in
question is of course the silicon chip
making these extraordinary miniature
electronic brains is one of the most
complex manufacturing tasks ever
attempted so how do they do it
in Texas USA polled to big stuff big
cows big boots big hats big moustaches
but Texas is also the birthplace of a
miniaturized miracle the silicon chip
and here in Sherman 30 kilometers north
of Dallas is the M EMC fabrication
facility
here in this strange futuristic looking
plant they produce silicon wafers which
are the basis for all modern microchips
silicon has special properties because
it's what's called a semiconductor that
means depending on how its treated
silicon can either conduct or block the
flow of electricity it's this property
that makes it perfect for supporting the
millions of tiny transistors necessary
for a modern computer chip the trouble
is because these transistors are so
incredibly small the silicon base on
which they rest needs to be absolutely
perfect it took decades to discover a
way to produce silicon with a perfect
mono crystalline structure they begin
with raw poly silicon or poly and heat
it to 1420 degrees Celsius inside a
special sealed furnace which has been
purged with argon gas to eliminate any
air
the resulting Lake of molten silicon is
then spun in a crucible and a silicon
seed crystal roughly the size and shape
of a pencil is lowered into it while
spinning in the opposite direction
as the molten polysilicon is allowed to
cool the seed crystal is slowly
withdrawn at around one and a half
millimeters a minute
the result is a single silicon crystal
weighing around 200 kilos and with a
diameter of around 200 millimeters
the crystal is so strong its entire
weight can be supported by a single
thread just three millimeters across but
it is brittle and it must now be cut
down to size without shattering so after
testing with chemicals and x-rays to
check its purity and molecular
orientation it's fed to a silicon salami
slicer this 10-ton wire saw uses a
fast-moving web of ultra-thin wire to
produce wafers of silicon that are just
two thirds of a millimeter thick and
ninety-nine point nine nine nine nine
nine nine nine nine percent pure but
once cut there are microscopic marks
left on the wafer surface so it's time
for a buffer using a process called
lapping
but even after a twirl in this
high-powered polisher they're still not
smooth enough so they're then given yet
another buff using a chemical process
the result is wafers of silicon with a
surface roughness of less than 0.1
billion billionth of a meter buffed to a
sheen they're now ready for etching with
the circuit design packing millions of
transistors onto these tiny wafers is
the job of chip manufacturers like Texas
Instruments back in 1958 the inventor of
the integrated circuit Jack Kilby
managed to squeeze a single transistor
onto his design these days the latest
generation use almost a billion and
according to Moore's law that number
doubles every two years but of course
the more they try and pack into the
design the smaller each transistor needs
to get there are over a quarter billion
transistors in this design
someone has to shrink them down to this
working at this microscopic scale
exposes the chip makers to a major
problem when a transistor is only one
ten thousandth of a millimeter across
the smallest particle of dust is enough
to cause an electronic trainwreck
so before staff like Dane Baily set to
work in the fab it's on with the bunny
suit wafer fab stands for wafer
fabrication we build the chips here we
start with the bare silicon wafer we've
run through a multitude of different
processing steps for our general product
that we make here a DSP typically takes
on the order of about 1500 individual
processing steps from start to finish
with an area of just under 18,000 square
meters the PHAB is a class 1 cleanroom
thanks to 12,000 tons of air
conditioning equipment the air is a
thousand times cleaner than a hospital
operating theater there is actually less
than 100 particles per cubic foot of air
as few as one particle landing on a
critical area can kill a chip to give
you an idea how clean this room is
walking alone produces five million
particles every minute so to avoid
contamination from the inadvertently
dusty staff front opening unified pods
or foots ferry packets of wafers through
the intricate process of component
construction
the key problem is miniaturizing the
complex designs and imprinting them on
the wafers
it's done through a process known as
photolithography first the wafer is
coated with photosensitive chemicals
which harden when exposed to UV light in
sealed dark rooms light is shone through
an image of the design then through a
miniaturizing lens and onto the coated
wafer when the chemical is washed off
the design remains just like a developed
photographic image but in order to pack
all the components onto the wafer
they're built up layer by layer like
floors in a miniature skyscraper
so to complete the job the Fuchs cycle
the wafers up to 40 times repeating the
photo etching process for each new layer
some layers are cooked some blasted with
ionized plasma some bathed in metals
each different type of treatment changes
the properties for that layer and slowly
forms part of the jigsaw making up the
chips design the finished sheets of
silicon wafer carry up to 1000
individual microchips and over 4
thousand billion circuit elements all
the remains is to slice and dice and the
journey from sand to circuit board is
complete
what was once a worthless pile of sand
can now change hands for more than
$17,000 a gram and calculate PI to 1000
decimal places in the blink of an eye
metaphysical poet William Blake reckoned
he could see a world in a grain of sand
but if he were to look again now he
would surely be even more amazed to
discover a billion tiny transistors
